Hello and welcome back to the advanced
course on Tableau. In the previous
tutorial, we finalized our animation and
today we're going to put it into a
dashboard to present our audience but
before we continue with today's tutorial
I would like to ask you for a favor and
over you brought this up but if you have
enjoyed this course, I would really
appreciate if you could leave a review
for this course. It's very easy to do in
the top right corner, you just have to
click rate course and select number of
stars you think the course deserves and
maybe leave a quick comment if you feel
that you want to do so to help other
students understand whether this course
is worthwhile or not and what you
thought of it I would really appreciate
your feedback. It would mean the world to
me, thank you very much if you can do
that for me today and now let's proceed
on with the show.
Alright so here we've got our animation,
now let's put into a dashboard first
thing we're going to do is change the
name of the sheet so we don't forget to
call animation. Now we're going to create
a dashboard and this one will call world
demographics. Great! And now let's drag
our animation into this dashboard. Alright,
its computing and once it's done,
I'm going to expand my Tableau workbook a
little bit so that I can see everything
we can see everything better.
Alright, so what can we see right away. We
can see that this indicator population
is not really helping us. Nobody is going
to go ahead and compare the size of the
bubbles to this legend. So let's go ahead
and get rid of it.
Next we will take this control panel and
we'll drag it to the top because it is
important that is our control for our
animation. What else we want to do here
is you can see that the names have been
cut off slightly so we want to change
the format so we're going to go format
legends and we will change the font to
10 so that they take up less space and
now we're going to we have to make this
a bit bigger so that we can see the
legend properly because it's not good
when you can only see some like
grab a part of the legend and not to the
full-text bit more.
There we go, so one more thing or one
other thing that you can see right away
is this 1960. It's a bit 22 black want to
change this color. We want to change it
to let's say this or even this color. So
it's kind of like in the background
looks like it's in the background and
then we might want to put it up at the
top here maybe maybe like that. So it's
it's not in your way and we don't need
this title so we're going to hide title
when we will do is we will add our own
title, of course every dashboard has to have
a title so let's drag a text whole place
holder to the top and I've got a pretty
title here world demographics analysis
dashboard, might make it like a 24 and a
bolt and see how that looks.
We want to center it and make it smaller.
That looks ok to me,
what else do we want? So when I put my
mouse over, one of these or when I
selected you can see like this control
pops up,
I don't want that control because I
don't want the user to accidentally
change something in the dashboard so I'm
going to go to worksheet once I've
clicked on this worksheet, I'm going to go to
worksheet, I'm going to go to tooltip and
I'm going to uncheck this include
command command buttons, click OK and now
you can see that it is is gone. So even
when I select something, there's no
control or no command buttons at the top.
There we go by the way you have this
option starting from Tableau nine in your
tool tip, you can change responsive so
show tooltips instantly that's the one
like that is default in Tableau 9.1 or
you can select the previous one that you
had in Tableau 9 or actually Tableau 8.
plus.. at 8 plus, where it was on hover, so it
would not appear instantly but only after
you had your mouse over a point for a
while for like half a second then it up
here. So maybe in this case, might be
better like that so that if the person
is moving the mouse around its not
getting in their way.
So let's leave it at that, okay so that's
pretty much done.
Let's have a look what else would we
want to change here. I think that's all
oh one more thing I wanted to show you. In
terms of formatting a dashboard of
course you can change the colors and so
on,
there's another way you can do it. You
can go to format and workbooks theme, so
there's three themes here. If I click
modern, it won't change much in this
particular instance. It just get rid of
the grid line but in other dashboards
that might change a bit also you can see
that this has become a darker the black
hair has become darker but the other one
that is pretty good my work for us is
work with clean classic, so it makes it look
like one of those research papers from
the nineties or something that. So I'm
going to leave this one just because I
kind of like it, fancy it and I might
change this black to not such a dark
black and there we go so now if I click
so of course I want to save this,
and if i go to window presentation mode
so this is what the dashboard looks like
and if somebody is doing some research
on this dashboard, oh there we go. So once I've
change it to a different style it cut
off the North Africa so I'm going to
maybe give it some more room there.
So is that again window presentation
mode you can see that's that what the
dashboard looks like and I can play the
animation so put the speed-up it's all
happening in real time. This is very
exciting. So imagine an executive or a
manager looking at this or are or even
somebody was doing some research for
somebody who's studying these four
countries and there we go off they go
and so that person can then analyze
exactly what happened so what was going
on there with this country or India or
Brazil.
We have here republic of Korea and
Uganda. So there we go, that's our
dashboard ready to go to the executives.
Well done! It was a great quick section. I
hope you enjoyed it hope you enjoyed the
tutorial in this section if you did
don't forget to leave a review for this
course I would really appreciate that if
you could do that for me today. Thank you
very much and I look forward to seeing
you next time.
Until then, happy analyzing!